# 7.1 类型一致

两种类型要么它们是一样的，要么它们是不同的。

Two named types are identical if their type names originate in the same TypeSpec. A named and an unnamed type are always different. Two unnamed types are identical if the corresponding type literals are identical， that is， if they have the same literal structure and corresponding components have identical types. In detail:

- Two array types are identical if they have identical element types and the same array length.

- Two slice types are identical if they have identical element types.

- Two struct types are identical if they have the same sequence of fields， and if corresponding fields have the same names， and identical types， and identical tags. Two anonymous fields are considered to have the same name. Lower-case field names from different packages are always different.

- Two pointer types are identical if they have identical base types.

- Two function types are identical if they have the same number of parameters and result values， corresponding parameter and result types are identical， and either both functions are variadic or neither is. Parameter and result names are not required to match.

- Two interface types are identical if they have the same set of methods with the same names and identical function types. Lower-case method names from different packages are always different. The order of the methods is irrelevant.

- Two map types are identical if they have identical key and value types.

- Two channel types are identical if they have identical value types and the same direction.

给一些声明：

	type (
		T0 []string
		T1 []string
		T2 struct{ a， b int }
		T3 struct{ a， c int }
		T4 func(int， float64) *T0
		T5 func(x int， y float64) *[]string
	)

下面这些类型是的等价的：

	T0 和 T0
	[]int 和 []int
	struct{ a， b *T5 } 和 struct{ a， b *T5 }
	func(x int， y float64) *[]string 和 func(int， float64) (result *[]string)

T0和T1是不同的类型，因为它们是不同声明中的命名类型。func(int， float64) *T0 和func(x int， y float64) *[]string 是不同类型，因为T0的类型不同于[]string。

## links
  * [目录](<preface.md>)
  * 下一节: [可赋值](<07.2.md>)