# 9 声明和作用域

A declaration binds a non-blank identifier to a constant， type， variable， function， or package. Every identifier in a program must be declared. No identifier may be declared twice in the same block， and no identifier may be declared in both the file and package block.

	Declaration   = ConstDecl | TypeDecl | VarDecl .
	TopLevelDecl  = Declaration | FunctionDecl | MethodDecl .

The scope of a declared identifier is the extent of source text in which the identifier denotes the specified constant， type， variable， function， or package.

Go is lexically scoped using blocks:

- The scope of a predeclared identifier is the universe block.

- The scope of an identifier denoting a constant， type， variable， or function (but not method) declared at top level (outside any function) is the package block.

- The scope of an imported package identifier is the file block of the file containing the import declaration.

- The scope of an identifier denoting a function parameter or result variable is the function body.

- The scope of a constant or variable identifier declared inside a function begins at the end of the ConstSpec or VarSpec (ShortVarDecl for short variable declarations) and ends at the end of the innermost containing block.

- The scope of a type identifier declared inside a function begins at the identifier in the TypeSpec and ends at the end of the innermost containing block.

An identifier declared in a block may be redeclared in an inner block. While the identifier of the inner declaration is in scope， it denotes the entity declared by the inner declaration.

The package clause is not a declaration; the package name does not appear in any scope. Its purpose is to identify the files belonging to the same package and to specify the default package name for import declarations.

## links
  * [目录](<preface.md>)
  * 下一节: [标号作用域](<09.1.md>)