# 9.12 方法声明

A method is a function with a receiver. A method declaration binds an identifier， the method name， to a method. It also associates the method with the receiver's base type.

	MethodDecl   = "func" Receiver MethodName Signature [ Body ] .
	Receiver     = "(" [ identifier ] [ "*" ] BaseTypeName ")" .
	BaseTypeName = identifier .

The receiver type must be of the form T or *T where T is a type name. The type denoted by T is called the receiver base type; it must not be a pointer or interface type and it must be declared in the same package as the method. The method is said to be bound to the base type and the method name is visible only within selectors for that type.

For a base type， the non-blank names of methods bound to it must be unique. If the base type is a struct type， the non-blank method and field names must be distinct.

Given type Point， the declarations

	func (p *Point) Length() float64 {
		return math.Sqrt(p.x * p.x + p.y * p.y)
	}
	
	func (p *Point) Scale(factor float64) {
		p.x *= factor
		p.y *= factor
	}

bind the methods Length and Scale， with receiver type *Point， to the base type Point.

If the receiver's value is not referenced inside the body of the method， its identifier may be omitted in the declaration. The same applies in general to parameters of functions and methods.

The type of a method is the type of a function with the receiver as first argument. For instance， the method Scale has type

	func(p *Point， factor float64)

这样的函数声明时不能算作一个方法。

## links
  * [目录](<preface.md>)
  * 下一节: [表达式](<10.0.md>)